---
hide:
  - toc
hide_footer_nav: true
---
# Introduction

## A.What is Macroeconomics

### Study Object 经济学的研究对象

### Macroeconomics & Microeconomics 宏观与微观

What continues to make macroeconomics distinct, though, is the issues it focuses on, particularly **long-run growth** and **business cycles**. Long-run growth refers to the increase in a nation’s productive capacity and average standard of living that occurs over a long period of time, whereas business cycles are the short-run ups and downs, or booms and recessions, in aggregate economic activity.


## B.Gross Domestic Product, Economic Growth, Business Cycle

One measure of aggregate economic activity is **gross domestic product (GDP)**, which is the quantity of goods and services produced within a country’s borders during some specified period of time.

## C.Macroeconomic Models

Macroeconomic Models is to explain long-run economic growth, why there are business cycles, and what role economic policy should play in the macroeconomy.

All economic models are **abstractions**. They are not completely accurate descriptions of the world, nor are they intended to be. The purpose of an economic model is to capture the essential features of the world needed for analyzing a particular economic problem. To be useful then, a model must be simple, and simplicity requires that we leave out some "realistic" features of actual economies.

the basic structure of a macroeconomic model is a description of the following features:
1. The consumers and firms that interact in the economy
2. The set of goods that consumers wish to consume
3. Consumers’ preferences over goods
4. The technology available to firms for producing goods
5. The resources available

In all the models we use in this book, we assume that consumers and firms **optimize**, that is, they do the best they can given the constraints they face. Second, we must specify how consistency is achieved in terms of the actions of consumers and firms. In economic models, this means that the economy must be in equilibrium. Several different concepts of equilibrium are used in economic models, but the one that we use most frequently in this book is **competitive equilibrium**.
两个重要的假设：1）嘉定消费者与企业都尽可能要达到最优化；2）消费者与企业的行为要实现协调一致，这意味着经济需要处于均衡状态

## D.Microeconomic Principles

1. 构建宏观经济学模型的最佳方式
   基于微观模型，而不是经济指标间的数量关系

2. 宏观理论的发展
   Rational Expectations Revolution
   Lucas Critique

## E.Disgreement in Macroeconomics

### approach to be taken to construct models of economic growth 经济增长模型的构造

1. Solow growth model: framework for understanding the economic growth process
   索洛增长模型：理解经济增长过程的框架
2. Endogenous growth model: model the economic mechanism determining the rate of economic growth
   内生增长模型：研究经济增长率的经济学机制

### Models about Business Cycles 经济周期理论

Roughly, business cycle theories can be differentiated according to whether they are Keynesian or non-Keynesian.
**凯恩斯主义**和**非凯恩斯主义**

Traditional Old Keynesian models, in the spirit of J. M. Keynes’s General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money, published in 1936, are based on the notion that wages and prices are sticky in the short run, and do not change sufficiently quickly to yield efficient outcomes. In the Old Keynesian world, government intervention through monetary and fiscal policy can correct the inefficiencies that exist in private markets.
老凯恩斯主义：

The rational expectations revolution produced some non-Keynesian theories of the business cycle, including real business cycle theory, initiated by Edward Prescott and Finn Kydland in the early 1980s. Real business cycle theory implies that government policy aimed at smoothing business cycles is at best ineffective and at worst detrimental to the economy’s performance.
非凯恩斯主义：

In the 1980s and 1990s, Keynesians used the developments in macroeconomics that came out of the rational expectations revolution to integrate Keynesian economics with modern macroeconomic thought. The result was two new strands of Keynesian thought—coordination failures and New Keynesian economics.
新凯恩斯主义：协调失效和新凯恩斯主义经济学

In a coordination failure model of the business cycle, the economy can be stuck in a bad equilibrium, not because of sticky wages and prices, but because economic agents are self-fulfillingly pessimistic. Alternatively, New Keynesian models include sticky wages and prices, as in traditional Old Keynesian models, but New Keynesians use the microeconomic tools that all modern macroeconomists use.

## F.What to Learn from Macroeconomic Analysis?

1. 生产&消费
2. 市场效率
3. 失业
4. 技术进步
5. 税收
6. 资本市场
7. 预期
8. 货币
9. 经济周期
10. 贸易
11. 通胀
12. 短期名义利率与通胀的关系

## G.Understanding Recent and Current Macroeconomic Events

1. Aggregate Productivity 总生产率
2. Unemployment and Vacancies 失业与职位空缺
3. Taxes, Government Spending, the Government Deficit 税收、政府支出与政府赤字
4. 通胀
5. 利率
6. 美国的经济周期
7. Credit Markets and the Finincial Crisis 信用市场和金融危机
8. The Current Account Surplus 经常账户盈余

## Z.Review Questions

1. What are the primary defining characteristics of macroeconomics?主要特征？
   Macroeconomics is the study of the behavior of large collections of economic agents. It focuses on the aggregate behavior of consumers and firms, the behavior of governments, the overall level of economic activity in individual countries, the economic interactions among nations, and the effects of fiscal and monetary policy.
   宏观经济学是关注的是消费者和企业的总体行为、政府的行为、各个国家的经济活动总水平、各国家间的经济交往、财政政策和货币政策影响的学科。

2. What makes macroeconomics different from microeconomics? What do they have in common?
   均使用近似的研究工具，但宏观经济学更关注**经济长期增长**和**经济运行周期**

3. How is an improvement in the living standard of the average American measured? 
   用人均GDP的增长情况衡量

4. What was the constant annual growth rate of real GDP per capita for the United States over the period 1900–2014?
   Growth in per capita real GDP has been "roughly" constant at about 2.0% per year.

5. List six fundamental macroeconomic questions.

6. In a graph of the natural logarithm of an economic time series, what does the slope of the graph represent?
   
   
7. What is the difference between the trend and the business cycle component of an eco- nomic time series?
8. Explain why experimentation is difficult in macroeconomics.
9.  Why should a macroeconomic model be simple?
10. Should a macroeconomic model be an exact description of the world? Explain why or why not.
11. What are the five features that a basic macroeconomic model should have?
12. Why can macroeconomic models be useful? How do we determine whether or not they are useful?
13. Explain why a macroeconomic model should be built from microeconomic principles.
14. What are the two key threads in modern business cycle theory?
15. Why was productivity growth low from 2010–2015?
16. Why might the vacancy rate rise without a commensurate reduction in the unemployment rate?
17. What is the crowding out effect?
18. Why might a decrease in taxes have no effect?
19. How does growth in money supply affect the inflation rate?
20. Explain the difference between the nominal interest rate and the real interest rate. Compare the causes of the recession in 2001 to that in 1974–1975.
21. What led to the large default premium in credit markets between 2008 and 2009? How does a government deficit lead to a current account deficit?